# 9/3/14

## Repository
- bitbucket
- development forks (todo)
- documentation
- CMake build system

## Wiki
- markdown format

## Staffing
- Patrick Widener is SNL staff developer on the project (added to mailing list)
- I posted an ANL postdoc position and am skyping one candidate from Austria on Monday

## Scope, technical topics, first steps (in no particular order)
- Develop pipeliner primitive.
- Demonstrate HACC->tess->dense in decaf
- Buffer mismatched data rates, develop buffer primitive
- Develop data description layer
- Develop soft error detection
- Start designing base classes (Tom)
- Understand existing tools and their possibility for reuse, in particular the MxN nature of those tools (Jay)
- Meet and understand relationship between DIY datatypes and file views (Tom, Florin)
- View approach for collectives for MPICH; data staging using double buffering; view, buffering, collective I/O based on views (Florin)

## Platform, tools:
- I will start with prototypes in MPI and DIY, using separate communicators to emulate different jobs
- Jay will work in C/C++ and Nessie (hidden from user)
- Florin in C

## Upcoming:
- I will miss the next meeting
- Florin to take paternity leave any time now

-----------------------

# 10/1/14

## Tom: Personnel update
- Guillaume Aupy, postdoc working on resilience modeling
- Lokman Rahmani, student starting next week and staying at ANL for 3 months, background in Damaris
- Skyping postdoc candidate next week

## Tom: Software update
- Decaf wrappers around transport layer implementations of datatype and communicator
- I'm working in a partition of a single application and world communicator into producer, dataflow, and consumer ranks, and forming of producer-dataflow and dataflow-consumer communicators
- Dataflow is an intermediate area between producer and consumer. Data moves in 2 steps producer->dataflow and dataflow->consumer.
- Selection / aggregation is also a 2-step process: prod_selector and con_selector functions are defined by the user and they filter everything going into and out of the dataflow.
- example of usage in examples/direct.cpp
- documentation contains notes on the above items
- code contains the details
- next up: pipelining

## Comments, questions, thoughts about software organization so far
- Can the dataflow optionally be on the same nodes as producer or consumer; Can producer, consumer, dataflow all be on the same nodes? TODO: Ought to be able to flexibly assign disjoint or overlapping nodes for producer, consumer, dataflow.
- Partitioning nodes in an MPI context is only one way to form these communicators; others should feel free to explore other contexts (separate applications, connected by sockets, etc.). Tom: I'm working in this context because it is my comfort zone.
- Having the user need to define two selector functions may be awkward. The user is not thinking in terms of the dataflow, and it should be as transparent as possible. Having a selector for the producer and one for the dataflow is hard to understand. Perhaps it makes more sense having the con_selector function be actually in the consumer space, and presenting a producer and consumer pair of selector functions to the user.
- We may want to have a wrapper around the low-level datatypes that map to higher level data models such as meshes, graphs, etc. Users don't think in terms of datatypes; they think in terms of vertices, cells, nodes, edges, etc., ie. data objects that make sense in terms of the application.
- Can use diy communication patterns to execute the aggregation/selection in a tree instead of point to point?
- Need bidirectional dataflow for steering the consumer.
- Asynchronous pub/sub implementation for put/get?

## Jay: Trilinos
- provides transport layer abstractions as well
- will evaluate whether we can use them and report back

## Jay: GT's EVPath
- For coupling separate independent applications
- Should be about 70% of the way there for what we need

## Jay: applications
- In a couple of weeks there will be a Hobbes code-athon; will have real examples of simulations there.

## Fault tolerance:
- Jay: reminiscent of transactions project. How do you know that you haven't lost anything, no errors occurred?
- Franck: another next step can be to define the criticality of data in the data model.

## Next Meeting: October 15
- Tom will be on travel, will try to call in.

-----------------------
NNNNNNNNNNNN
